# Welcome to the Impossimaze
## Thurs, 25 | 02 | 2021
Play the game (https://berivera1.github.io/welcome-to-the-impossimaze/ "here").
### What is the purpose of the project?
*Welcome to the Impossimaze* is a surrealist (or absurdist) puzzle game taking place in a 2D maze. The main goal of *The Impossimaze* is to balance out frustrating puzzles with (hopefully) comical dialogue. Going into the game, my original goal that I spoke to myself was "I want the player to say 'Fuck you, developer'" (but not 'fuck off, developer').
### What do you hope to achieve with it, and how is your design well-suited to accomplishing these goals? (e.g. is it suspenseful, is it scary, is it a mystery, is it funny?  Is it interactive? Does it create immersion or agency? Once you have identified those goals, explain how you try to reach them?
In this goal, I don't mean that I want the solutions to puzzles to be arbitary or require brute force (that would be a 'fuck off, developer' moment). Instead, I want the solutions to be frusturatingly difficult, but create this difficulty solely through advantage of a very simple, but well thought out mechanic. That mechanic is what I call the "jumper", which is a tile that jumps you ahead a single space, and which itself cannot be stepped on. The dialogue and environment is absurdist to balance out this frustration, in hopes that this will sort-of "take the edge off" of the game's difficulty. I theorize that if I can make a player laugh with my dialogue, they'll be more inclined to continue playing the difficult puzzles. I have not achieved this difficulty in the initial room, but I have plans on interating with the mechanic in rooms 2 and 3 (utilizing walls that can be jumped through) to up the game's difficulty.
### Give specific examples of how you are using the features of the project medium to evoke your intended effects.
I think that Bitsy, the game's medium, really works in conjunction with the intended effects. First, the game engine's simplicity almost deceives the player. People typically expect a Bitsy game to be more narrative, and less confusing. I think that this will make the puzzle mechanics of the game even more interesting and frustrating to the player. Also, because Bitsy has really small, simplistic assets (sprites are only a single color and a maximum of 16 x 16 squares), it makes the absurdism of the game work really well. This is because the simplicity of the sprites leads them to be abstracted to an extent, which means that there already is a preconception of abstract reality, or non-reality, when going into the game. I think it's similar to how vaporwave games like Broken Reality are able to be so absurdist because of their more simple aesthetic. It creates a sense of ironic nostalgia. Now, this isn't to say that all Bitsy games are ironically nostalgic, but just that the medium allows the creator to easily make this type of aesthetic.